.. _MN:

Mismatched Autidory Oddball (MMN)
=================================

.. vimeo:: 889695480
    :align: center
    :width: 75%


Overview
--------

Short (``300`` ms) sinusoidal auditory tones are presented in an oddball paradigm with the
standard stimulus (300Hz tone) appearing in 85% of trials compared to the deviant stimulus
(700Hz tone) appearing in 15% of trials. The stimuli are presented in a pseudorandom order
where two deviants are never played one after another. Baseline videos are playing in the
background at all times, which are the same videos used in the :ref:`RS` task.

Conditions
----------

Standard
    ``300`` ms sinusoidal tone at 300Hz
Deviant
    ``300`` ms sinusoidal tone at 700Hz

Blocks / Trials
---------------
The experiment conists of 2 blocks of 60 trials each (51 standard, 9 deviant), 
resulting in 120 total trials. Each trial consists of a 1-second tone stimulus and
an inter-trial interval (ITI) of ``700ms``. Trials are presented in a pseudorandom
order, such that two deviants are never played one after another.

.. note::
    The ``MMN_A.dat`` and ``MMN_B.dat`` files contain the specification for the
    trial sequence.
 

Animations
----------
Baseline videos
    The baseline videos are the same as the :ref:`RS` task, and are present
    throughout the experiment for the participant to view.

Interest Areas
--------------
There are no interest areas defined for this task.


Gaze Triggers
-------------
There are no gaze triggers defined for this task.

Classifiers
-----------
There are no tiral classifiers defined for this task.


Event Messaging
---------------
Experiment Builder will send experiment event codes to both the Eyelink and EGI
acquisition systems, and the event code patterns differ slightly:


EGI acquisition
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
EGI Netstation does not support the same event messaging as the Eyelink Host PC, as
event codes are generally restricted to 4 characters. The table below shows the
corresponding event codes for the EGI Netstation acquisition, and the DIN event
triggered by the photo-diode on the screen for each event.

========================  ========  ========  =========
Event Description             EGI Event         DIN
------------------------  ------------------  ---------
    Condition             Standard   Deviant   
========================  ========  ========  =========
Onset of tone             ``mmns``  ``mmnt``  ``DIN7``
========================  ========  ========  =========

.. note::
    DIN events represent the auditory rise onset of each tone,
    and are generated by the Cedrus Stimtracker that is connected to the speakers
    (audio output jack), and are used for assurance of event timing accuracy. 

In addition to the event codes above, the following codes are also sent to the EGI
Netstation acquisition system, but generally are not needed for offline analysis:

========================  ======================================
Description               EGI Event
------------------------  --------------------------------------
begin task                ``VBeg``
Netstation misc event     ``TSYN``
display start menu        ``dstr``
display break menu        ``dbrk`` 
display end screen        ``dend``
========================  ======================================