.. _AP:

Steady State Auditory Evoked Potentials (SSAEP)
===============================================

.. vimeo:: 889685844
    :align: center
    :width: 75%


Overview
--------

The SSAEP task is an auditory task that presents 1 second sine wave tones with their
amplitude modulating at frequencies 6Hz and 40Hz. There is a jittered period of silence
between the 1-second tone presentations (Inter-trial-Interval; ITI), either ``700``,
``900``, ``1100`` or ``1300`` ms. While the sine waves are presented, an abstract video
is played on the screen (See the :ref:`RS` task for more details on the abstract video
stimuli). 

Conditions
----------

6Hz
    The 1-second tone presentations modulate in amplitude at 6Hz
15Hz
    The 1-second tone presentations modulate in amplitude at 15Hz

Blocks / Trials
---------------
The experiment conists of 4 blocks of 40 trials each (20 per condition), resulting in
about 80 seconds per block. Breaks are given between blocks, and are controlled by the
experimenter. A quasi-random trial sequence allows a maximum of 4 frequency repetitions
in a row (i.e. 6hz, 6hz, 6hz, 6hz; for a total of 4 seconds).

.. note::
    The ``SSAEP_A.dat`` and ``SSAEP_B.dat`` files contain the specification for the
    trial sequence, including the jittered ITI. These files assure that the various
    ITI's are evenly distributed throughout the experiment, such that an ITI of
    ``700ms`` will not only precede the ``6Hz`` condition, etc. These ``dat`` files
    are assigned prior to each session and are selected by the experimenter.
 

Animations
----------
Baseline videos
    The baseline videos are the same as the :ref:`RS` task, and are present
    throughout the experiment for the participant to view.

Interest Areas
--------------
There are no interest areas defined for this task.


Gaze Triggers
-------------
There are no gaze triggers defined for this task.

Classifiers
-----------
There are no tiral classifiers defined for this task.


Event Messaging
---------------
Experiment Builder will send experiment event codes to both the Eyelink and EGI
acquisition systems, and the event code patterns differ slightly:


EGI acquisition
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
EGI Netstation does not support the same event messaging as the Eyelink Host PC, as
event codes are generally restricted to 4 characters. The table below shows the
corresponding event codes for the EGI Netstation acquisition, and the DIN event
triggered by the photo-diode on the screen for each event.

========================  ========  ========  =========
Event Description             EGI Event         DIN
------------------------  ------------------  ---------
    Condition               6Hz      40Hz   
========================  ========  ========  =========
Jittered ISI              ``N.A.``  ``N.A.``
Onset of 1-second tone    ``ae06``  ``ae40``   ``DIN7`` 
========================  ========  ========  =========


.. note::
    DIN events represent the auditory rise onset of each 1-second tone stimulus stream,
    and are generated by the Cedrus Stimtracker that is connected to the speakers
    (audio output jack), and are used for assurance of event timing accuracy. 

In addition to the event codes above, the following codes are also sent to the EGI
Netstation acquisition system, but generally are not needed for offline analysis:

========================  ======================================
Description               EGI Event
------------------------  --------------------------------------
begin task                ``VBeg``
Netstation misc event     ``TSYN``
display start menu        ``dstr``
display break menu        ``dbrk`` 
display end screen        ``dend``
========================  ======================================